Whatistizen65 (#1554)
Samsung/tizen-docs: docs/platform/what-is-tizen/versions/tizen-6-5-m2.md

> # Tizen 6.5

Reviewer: Since this is a new topic, please update the toc_all.md file to include this file in Left Nav

Author: I updated toc_all.md file for adding Tizen 6.5

# Tizen 6.5

The second milestone (M2) release of Tizen 6.5 was announced in October 2021.
Tizen is an open-source operating system (OS) maintained by Samsung and is developed and optimized for smart devices since 2012.

> Tizen 6.5 achieved to connect more devices and create intelligent services on those connected devices.

Reviewer: Here is my suggestion to rephrase, you can check for technical accuracy:

In Tizen 6.5, new multi-device experience frameworks are introduced. With Tizen 6.5 you can now connect more devices and create intelligent services on those connected devices. Also, Tizen app development has now become more easier and familiar with the introduction of the new popular cross-platform framework **Flutter for Tizen**. Tizen 6.5 includes enhancements for .NET and web, and it is also more flexible and adaptable for IoT devices. With enhanced Tizen Image Creator, you can create custom Tizen image with just a few clicks on Tizen 6.5.

New multi-device experience frameworks are introduced in Tizen 6.5.
On top of that, Tizen app development becomes easier and more familiar by introducing new popular cross-platform framework, flutter for Tizen.

> We are also enhancing previously introduced .NET and web with new updates.

Reviewer: Who is We? Recommend to avoid We usage, @mijin85cho your thoughts?

Tizen 6.5 includes enhancements for .NET and web, and it is also more flexible and adaptable for IoT devices.

> We are also enhancing previously introduced .NET and web with new updates.

Reviewer: Who are We? Recommend to avoid We usage, @mijin85cho your thoughts?

We made Tizen 6.5 more flexible and adaptable to IoT devices.
With enhanced Tizen Image Creator, you can create custom Tizen image with just a few clicks.

> ## Multiple device experiences

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Multi device experiences
```

- **Advanced companion framework**:

> The Advanced Companion Framework facilitates multi-device application development,

Reviewer: Recommend to align the text bellow with the title **Advanced companion framework**:

providing interactive communication among devices in a local network.

> It provides services to develop companion applications

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It provides services to develop companion applications, such as
```

>   - Search & connect devices in local network

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Search and connect devices in a local network,
```

>   - Share data & interact with companion applications

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Share data and interact with companion applications,
```

>   - TIDL supports C, C++, C# and Java interfaces

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - TIDL support for C, C++, C# and Java interfaces, and
```

>   - Cross platform APIs (Tizen & Android)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Cross platform APIs (Tizen & Android) support.
```

**Figure: Advanced Companion Framework**

![AdvancedCompanionFramework](./media/6.5_AdvancedCompanionFramework.png)

- **AI Inference offloading**:

> AI Inference offloading service framework enables low-end IoT devices to provide AI services

Reviewer: Global comment, please check the alignment.

without cloud network connection.
For example, if you want to provide AI-based home training service on TV with low computing power,
you can make it happen with the help of AI Inference Offloading Framework.

> It provides AI services by leveraging high-end devices in the edge network

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It provides AI services by leveraging high-end devices in the edge network, such as
```

>   - Automatic discovery of optimal high-end device

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Automatic discovery of the optimal high-end device,
```

>   - Optimized communication protocol for exchanging inputs and results

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Optimized communication protocol for exchanging inputs and results,
```

>   - Secure communication

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Secure communication, and
```

>   - Cross platform APIs (Tizen & Android)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Cross platform APIs (Tizen & Android) support.
```

- **Natural User Interface**:

NUI(Natural User Interface) is the UI toolkit for building rich applications even on low-end IoT devices. It provides intuitive C# APIs, Powerful animation effect and Responsive UI. You can easily extend features and styles as you want.

  - Interactive animation & seamless transition effect
  You can add interactive animations and seamless transition effects in your NUI applications.

  - Rive vector animation : Vector animation has been enhanced. The advantage of Rive animation is it can interact with users.It also provides animation mixing and runtime customization.

  - 2D & 3D unified interface : The biggest advantage of NUI is that it is based on a 3D graphics engine, so there is no need to use external libraries or engines to display 3D.

  - UI Automation : Accessibility framework based test automation for Native & Web UI. It provides programmatic access to UI elements and manipulates the UI by means other than the standard input. You can make automated UI test scripts using the Tizen UI Automation system.

**Figure: Natural User Interface**

![NaturalUserInterface](./media/6.5_NaturalUserInterface.png)

- **Flutter for Tizen**:

> Flutter is one of the most popular cross-platform frameworks, and it can run on many OSes,

Reviewer: Suggest to rephrase

such as Android, iOS, Windows, Linux, Mac and now we introduce Flutter to Tizen by flutter-tizen.

With flutter-tizen, app developers can deploy faster, get native performance,
and easily port Flutter app from other platforms to Tizen.

> We implemented Tizen embedder in order to connect Tizen platform with Flutter engine as well as plugin support for native capabilities such as battery, connectivity, video player, webview, and more.

Reviewer: Remove We and rephrase please

>   - Development tools support : Flutter-tizen supports Flutter developer tools for performance analysis and debugging.   It also includes hot reload, one of convenient tool for app developers,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Development tools support: Flutter for Tizen supports Flutter's developer tools for performance analysis and debugging. It also includes hot reload, which is a convenient tool for app developers,
```

**Figure: Flutter for Tizen**

![FlutterForTizen](./media/6.5_FlutterForTizen.png)

## Full Hardware Abstraction

- **Easy version up & Easy device porting**:

The internal structure of the platform image has been improved by completely separating the hardware dependent implementation.
It offers a new, independently maintainable structure.

> It is possible to upgrade only the platform part.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is now possible to upgrade only the platform part.
```

Conversely, when migrating to a new device, it is possible to develop only the Hal and kernel area independently.

> Tizen Platform can be easily updated and ported to other devices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tizen platform can be easily updated and ported to other devices.
```
